### Final Project Essay

#### Now that you have seen many full research projects saved online as GitHub repositories do you plan to use GitHub for your future projects as a way to store code and data in the cloud and to share your progress with others?
I definitely plan to use GitHub for any future projects, more so to save my jupyter notebooks, of which  I've become a a big fan.  I plan to use jupyter notebooks to document all the bioinformatic work for my master's thesis along with any other project that involves R or python data manipulation and processing. I'm probably less likely to add my own data to GitHub, just because of space limitations but I may be interested in hosting my data on another site. 

#### Did you project accomplish the goals that you set out for yourself in your proposal? If not, why? What was the hardest problem in your project that were able to overcome? What, if any, was a problem that you were unable to overcome in your project within the given time?
I wasn't able to fully accompish the goals I outlined in my proposal mostly due to the large size and messy quality of data I am trying to process through ipyrad. I learned how to start an MPI and get access to one more node for a total of 48 cores. It was not particularly difficult, but it is still proving to be an issue. Another difficutly I faced was using both Python and R in the same notebook. I wasn't able to actually use EEMS yet, but I wanted to prepare using both languages in the same notebook. The online jupyter community seemed to think this was possible through the `rpy2` package and %% magic, but I've been having trouble with installing and using `rpy2`. At this point, I have two separate tutorials instead of just one but I intend to merge it in the future (once all my data is done running through ipyrad). 

#### Do you feel that you've learned the skills necessary perform data analysis in Python, and to write your own program or pipeline for data analysis? What skills do you think you need to work on further, and where would you look to find more information about learning these skills?
I came into this class having a novice level background in Python and after this class I have definitely learned more and am more comfortable with the language. I have learned how to build a program, but I am still not very comfortable with writing the code requried. I think this will just require more time and practice writing class objects in Python. I intend to practice using Python for simple tasks so I can build on these skills and eventually be able to write more complex functions/objects. Through this class I've also learned there is a large online community for Python help and developement, so to find more information about these skills I would look primarily at various sites online. Before this class started I was also using a book called "Automating the Boring Stuff with Python" and intend to continue working through it to solidify basic python skills and build on the concepts/skills I learned in class. 